# Notes 200810

Basically losing type projections means losing opaque types, unless we'd pay the price of carrying around a value
of some system in every object, which is not feasible. And `erased` seems to have been erased from Dotty 0.26.

The two crucial opaque types are `S#Id` and `S#Acc`, which are closely related. For example, if we change
`Mutable[S#Id, S#Tx]` to `Mutable[T, Ident[T]]` or so, then `tx.newIdentifierMap` cannot use `tx.Id` but must assume
`Ident[T]`, and consequently each opaque type that is a plain data structure must become a transparent type that
carries methods, which is indeed ugly. So `tx.neadVar` becomes `id.readVar`, for example. The id map is more tricky.

We would probably have to retrofit the serial library as well, to have `read(in, tx)(tx.acc)` or something similar,
unless we store the current `acc` in the transaction, which is a no-go as it implies a performance hit (we need to
use a stack).

---

In short, Dotty is a shit show so far; plus cross-building means we get the worst of both worlds.

---

But `Acc` and `Id` are only useful within a transaction, the id may otherwise be considered stale. So we could
explore the possibility to have a dependent type that can only be accessed when a transaction is present? Like

```
trait Mutable[T <: Txn[T]] {
  def id(implicit tx: T): tx.Id
}
```

? That probably can't work, because `tx` will immediately diverge. So any mutable must provide a value for the
transaction that "read" it?


```
trait Mutable[T <: Txn[T]] {
  val tx: T

  def id: tx.Id
}
```

In a way, it makes "sense" semantically. The identifier indeed depends on the transaction. But do what does
that mean for memory usage, garbage collection etc. pp.

On the other hand, can we do anything useful with this `tx.Id`? Not really.

Unless we assume one always uses `Mutable[tx.type]`? What happens to handles?

```
trait Source[-Tx, +A] {
  def apply()(implicit tx: Tx): A
}
```

This would have to be changed to

```
trait Source[-Tx, +A[_]] {
  def apply()(implicit tx: Tx): A[tx.type]
}
```

Basically throughout the entire code base, every occurrence of `Obj[S]` becomes `Obj[tx.type]` which would be
an abomination. Whereas views remain "the same", `View[S]`, `Transport[S]`, `Scheduler[S]` etc.

This can never work, because we introduce a schism everywhere. Like `stm.Var[T, A]` cannot assume an abstract `A`,
now we would need to know whether that's `A[_]` becoming `A[tx.type]` etc. This kind of dependent types is
a dead end.

---

Let's look at the most complex id used, the confluent one:

```
trait Identifier[S <: Sys[S]] extends stm.Identifier[S#Tx] {
  def base: Int  // name, origin, base, agent, ancestry, germ, parent, root
  def path: S#Acc
}
```

